---
assigned: 2024-04-02 17:00
description: 'Listening to Developers'
due: 2024-04-08 17:00
title: h00
ready: true
layout: default
org: https://github.com/ucsb-cs156-s24
org_name: ucsb-cs156-s24
prev_assignment: P04
prev_assignent_link: https://ucsb-cs156.github.io/s24/hwk/p04/
canvas_link: https://ucsb.instructure.com/courses/20058/assignments/236286
sample_team: s24-5pm-3
---

# {{page.title}} - {{page.description}}


Between now and when when this homework assignment is due
({{page.due |  date: '%B %d, %Y at %l:%M %p' }}),
please read over the part of the paper that you were assigned, and think
about these questions, and write something in your .md file for each
of these questions (the one that you created in the assignment [{{page.prev_assignment}}]({{page.prev_assignent_link}}).

This will count as an individual homework grade, {{page.title}}, due {{page.due |  date: '%B %d, %Y at %l:%M %p' }}.

Please try to use [Markdown](https://ucsb-cs156.github.io/topics/markdown.html) to format your file nicely.

1. (40 pts) For the aspect of software development that you were assigned, the paper describes some aspects of what software development in school is like, vs.
   what it is like in industry.

   Now consider your own personal experiences in school.  Do they line up with what was reported in the paper, or are they different?  Is it a mix?

   In your <tt>{{page.prev_assignment}}/sect4.<i>x</i>.md</tt> file (where <tt><i>x</i></tt> is one of 1,2,3,4,5 or 6),
   write briefly about your own personal experiences in school that are relevant to this topic, and how they are the same or different
 (or a mix of both), as compared to what the interview subjects in the paper reported.  Put this under the heading `# Question 1`.

2. (30 pts) Under the heading `# Question 2`, answer this question: What are the things that developers found suprising or different about industry in terms of
   this aspect of software development?

3. (30 pts) Under the heading `# Question 3`, answer this question: What are suggestions for things students could do in school to better prepare them for
   this aspect of software development as practiced in industry?

   These can be ideas from the paper, or ideas of your own; either is fine.  But in your answer, clearly identify whether each idea is your idea,
   or one from the paper.

# Submitting on Canvas

Please submit on Canvas at [the link for H00]({{page.canvas_link}}).

The URL you enter should be the URL that links directly to your page, one of the files:
* `sect4.1.md`, `sect4.2.md`, `sect4.3.md`, `sect4.4.md`, `sect4.5.md`, `sect4.6.md`

For example, if you are on team {{page.sample_team}} and assigned to section 4.4, your link would look like this:

* https://github.com/{{page.org_name}}/{{page.sample_team}}-NOTES/blob/main/p05/sect4.4.md

The link should take you directly to the page where you entered your answers.

